One way of keeping database costs from becoming
unmanageable is by keeping a subset of the data in RDS.
It's a best practice to keep the part of
your database that you would like to leave unchanged in RDS,
moving large objects and a subset of your variable data to S3,
reducing storage and retrieval costs.
By moving your CLOBs and BLOBs to S3,
you can improve performance and availability and reduce costs.
S3 is fast, scalable, reliable, and inexpensive.
One small caveat is that because S3 is eventually consistent,
you may have to modify your application logic to store the version ID and
the transaction in RDS in order to achieve point-in-time consistency.
It is also wise to reduce costs by moving historical data to S3.
This is the data that is very seldom read but consumes storage in CPU cycles.
In most cases, historical data can be archived to
Amazon S3 Glacier for maximum cost savings.
Lastly, it may be beneficial to consider moving your high velocity,
frequently written data to DynamoDB.
Again, DynamoDB is a NoSQL database fully managed by AWS.
Amazon takes on the responsibility of operating and scaling the database,
so you don't have to worry about the setup,
configuration, replication, scaling, or patching.
In addition, DynamoDB is the lowest cost option when you provision a capacity in
advance by specifying the number of
read/writes per second you expect your application to require.
This is especially relevant when you need to replicate tables globally
because you only pay for the read/write capacity that you provision for your table.
This combined with the fact that DynamoDB distributes data in
a table across multiple partitions on different physical servers,
means that you'll have improved read/write throughput of
your tables and reduce costs at the same time.
Databases can be costly and become unmanageable.
How can we prevent these scenarios?
Well, first, we can have incremental backups,
we can communicate within the same availability zone,
and we can purchase reserved instances for our managed databases.